2022-06-22-Project-1-Blog-Post
================
Steph Camino
2022-06-22

For Project 1 I created a vignette about contacting an API from NASA
regarding near-earth asteroids. The data gathered from this API is from
NeoWs (Near Earth Object Web Service). To contact the API I wrote
functions to query, parse, and return data. Afterwards I performed a
small exploratory analysis on the data I returned form the functions I
created.  
An interesting finding that I found is that it seems like scientists
have a harder time estimating the diameter of potentially hazardous
asteroids versus potentially non-hazardous asteroids. This finding might
be due to the lack of information since the dataset I used was fairly
small, but it was still fun to look at! Other than that, I didn’t find
anything too incredibly wild.  
The most difficult part of the project was accessing the API and
figuring out to navigate it. In hindsight, it seems like a walk in the
park, but it took me quite a bit of time. I struggled finding an API,
finding data from the API that would work for this project, and
navigating it once I got access to it through R, so almost the entire
process. I think part of the issue was trying to figure out the goals of
the project, but alas we got ‘er done. In hindsight, I would do many
things differently. The biggest thing I would do differently is utilize
’TidyVerse’ more. There were many things I did in the project that
definitely could have been written in a more efficient way but I had
those epiphanies a little too late. My brain seems to work in a way that
conceptualizes the problem, writes code that works but is probably less
computationally efficient and takes up too much space, and then I have
an epiphany of how I could have utilized what I’ve learned in this class
to make it all better. I’m trying to train my brain to skip that second
step and go straight to the epiphany, that takes time and practice.
Patience grasshopper.  
[Here](https://github.com/smcamino/Camino-Project-1) is the link to my
github pages repo and
[here](https://smcamino.github.io/Camino-Project-1/) is my link to my
regular repo. I hope you Enjoy!
