## What do you think being a data scientist is about?  
I think a data scientist is the perfect mix between statistics, mathematics, computer science, and knowledge. They take pieces of each to answer questions using data that each profession, statistics, mathematics, and computer science, couldn’t do individually. Due to their background, data scientists can keep up better in this data collecting frenzy of a society we live in. 

## What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?  
In data science, having a background in statistics, mathematics, and computer science are very important. These knowledge areas come in handy a for a data scientist’s major duties of data ingest, data transformation, exploratory data analysis, model selection, model evaluation, and data storytelling. Being knowledgeable in the area where the data comes from is also very important when completing the major duties. 

## What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?  
Data scientists must have a background in statistics, but statisticians don’t have to have a background in data science, even though they should know what it is and what the differences are. Statisticians don’t have to be an expert in the field that the data belongs to while data scientists do, which means data scientists are able to complete more exploratory data analysis and specific problems. The size of datasets and dataset collection process differ across the two areas where data scientists work with much larger data than statisticians. Model selection also differ across professions. Data scientists choose a model that will predict accurately but a statistician will pick a model that is simple and that fits the data well. Despite all of the differences between data scientists and statisticians, they both have similar purposes and goals, to answer questions using data. 

## How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?
If the relationship between the two areas was a scale, I wouldn’t find myself in the middle or on the extreme side of the statistician, but somewhere in between. My background includes statistics, mathematics, and computer science but since I’m currently getting my Master’s in statistics, I find myself leaning towards statistics on the data science/statistics scale. I find this to be motivation to be in this class and learn more about data science so I can feel more comfortable and educated in the area. 
